
Test plan: 
-----------

This is detailed document which contains

-> Test Strategy
-> Testing Objectives
-> Resources(Man Power, Software and Hardware) required for testing
-> Test Schedule
-> Test Estimation
-> Test Deliverables


---------> Test plan serves as a blueprint to cunduct software testing activities as  a defined process which is minutely monitored by the test manager



Importance of test plan:
------------------------

-> Determines the efforts needed to validate the quality of application under test
-> Help all other stakeholders to understand the details of testing(Developers, customers,business managers)
-> Guides our thinking. It is like a RULE BOOK, which needs to be followed.
-> important aspects like test estimation, test scope, test strategy are documented in Test plan. Hence it can be reviewed by Managment Team and re-used for other projects



How to Write a Test Plan:
-------------------------

Making test plan is most important task in Test Management Process. As per IEEE 829, below 7 steps to be followed to create test plan

1. Analyze the Product
2. Define the test strategy
3. Define the Test Objectives
4. Define Test Criteria
5. Resource Planning
6. Plan Test Environment
7. Schedule and Estimation
8. Determine Test Deliverables



1. Analyze the product: example: Guru99 banking website

	----> Who will use the website?
	----> What is it used for?
	----> How will it work?
	----> What are software/Hardware the product uses?

	To get answers for above, 
        1)Interview client, designer and developer, 2) Review product and project documentation, 3) Perform prodcut walk through.


2. Develop Test Stratagy: This is a critical step in making test plan. Test Strategy document usually developed by Test Manager.

	----> Thi defines Project's testing objectives and the means to achieve them
	----> Determines testing effort and costs
          
        1)Define scope of Testing
	2)Identify Testing Type
	3)Document Risks and Issues
	4)Create Test Logistics


       2.1) Define Scope of Testing
       ----------------------------

        Before the start of any test activity, scope of the testing should be known. 

	--> The components of the system to be tested (hardware, software, middleware, etc.) are defined as "in scope"
	--> The components of the system that will not be tested also need to be clearly defined as being "out of scope."

	
	How do you determine scope your project? 

	To determine scope, you must – 

	--> Precise customer requirement
	--> Project Budget
	--> Product Specification
	--> Skills & talent of your test team

	Now should clearly define the "in scope" and "out of scope" of the testing. 

	As the software requirement specs,
        The project Guru99 Bank only focus on testing all the functions and external interface of website Guru99 Bank (in scope testing)

	Nonfunctional testing such as stress, performance or logical database currently will not be tested. (out of scope)


	Problem Scenario 
	----------------

	The customer wants you to test his API. But the project budget does not permit to do so. In such a case what will you do? 

	Well, in such case you need to convince the customer that Api Testing is extra work and will consume significant resources. Give him data supporting your facts. Tell him if Api Testing is included in-scope the budget will 	increase by XYZ amount. 

	The customer agrees and accordingly the new scopes, out of scope items are 
	In-scope items: Functional Testing, Api Testing
	Out of scope items: Database Testing, hardware & any other external interfaces



	2.2) Identify Testing Type
	--------------------------
	A Testing Type is a standard test procedure that gives an expected test outcome. 
	Each testing type is formulated to identify a specific type of product bugs. But, all Testing Types are aimed at achieving one common goal “Early detection of all the defects before releasing the product to the customer”


	The commonly used testing types are described as following figure 

	Unit Test: Test the smallest piece of verifiable software in the application

	API Testing: Test the API's created for the application

	Integration Test: Individual software modules are combined and test as a group

	System Test: Conducted on a complete, integrated system to evaluate the system's compliance with its specified requirements

	Install/Uninstall Testing: Focuses on what customers will need to do to install/uninstall and set up/remove the new software successfully

	Agile Testing: Testing the system using Agile methodology

	As Test Manager, you must set priority of the Testing Types 
	


	As Test Manager, you must set priority of the Testing Types 
	
	Which Testing Types should be focused for web application testing?
	Which Testing Types should be ignored for saving cost?




	2.3) Document Risk & Issues
	----------------------------
	Risk is future’s uncertain event with a probability of occurrence and a potential for loss.
	When the risk actually happens, it becomes the ‘issue’.


	Risk 											Mitigation 

	Team member lack the required skills for website testing.                       	Plan training course to skill up your members 

	The project schedule is too tight; it's hard to complete this project on time 		Set Test Priority for each of the test activity. 
  
	Test Manager has poor management skill 							Plan leadership training for manager 

	A lack of cooperation negatively affects your employees' productivity 			Encourage each team member in his task, and inspire them to greater efforts.   
	
	Wrong budget estimate and cost overruns 						Establish the scope before beginning work, pay a lot of attention to project planning and constantly track and measure the progress 





	2.4) Create Test Logistics
	--------------------------
	 In Test Logistics, the Test Manager should answer the following questions: 
		
	Who will test?
	You may not know exact names of the tester who will test, but the type of tester can be defined. 
	To select the right member for specified task, you have to consider if his skill is qualified for the task or not, also estimate the project budget. Selecting wrong member for the task may cause the project to fail or delay. 


	Person having the following skills is most ideal for performing software testing: 

	Ability to understand customers point of view
	Strong desire for quality
	Attention to detail
	Good cooperation


	When will the test occur?
	Test activities must be matched with associated development activities. 
	You will start to test when you have all required items shown in following figure 

	Test specifications and requirement document + 	Human Resources  +  Test Environment  ==> Ready to Test



3. Define Test Objective:
-------------------------

	Test Objective is the overall goal and achievement of the test execution.
	The objective of the testing is finding as many software defects as possible; ensure that the software under test is bug free before release. 

	To define the test objectives, you should do 2 following steps 

	List all the software features (functionality, performance, GUI…) which may need to test.
	Define the target or the goal of  the test based on  above features

	Let’s apply these steps to find the test objective of your Guru99 Bank testing project 

	You can choose the ‘TOP-DOWN’ method to find the website’s features which may need to test. In this method, you break down the application under 	test to component and sub-component. 

	In the previous topic, you have already analyzed the requirement specs and walk through the website, so you can create a Mind-Map to find the 	website features as following 
 
	This figure shows all the features which the Guru99 website may have. 
	
	Based on above features, you can define the Test Objective of the project Guru99 as following 

	Check that whether website Guru99 functionality(Account, Deposit…) is working as expected without any error or bugs in real business environment
	Check that the external interface of the website such as UI is working as expected and & meet the customer need
	Verify the usability of the website. Are those functionalities convenient for user or not?




4) Define Test Criteria:
------------------------


	Test Criteria is a standard or rule on which a test procedure or test judgment can be based. There’re 2 types of test criteria as following 

	Suspension Criteria
	Specify the critical suspension criteria for a test. If the suspension criteria are met during testing, the active test cycle will be suspended 	until the criteria are resolved. 
	
	Example: If your team members report that there are 40% of test cases failed, you should suspend testing until the development team fixes all the 	failed cases.

 
	Exit Criteria
	It specifies the criteria that denote a successful completion of a test phase. The exit criteria are the targeted results of the test and are 	necessary before proceeding to the next phase of development. Example: 95% of all critical test cases must pass. 
	Some methods of defining exit criteria are by specifying a targeted run rate and pass rate. 
	Run rate is ratio between number test cases executed/total test cases of test specification. For example, the test specification has total 120 TCs, 	but the tester only executed 100 TCs, So the run rate is 100/120 = 0.83 (83%)
	Pass rate is ratio between numbers test cases passed / test cases executed. For example, in above 100 TCs executed, there’re 80 TCs that passed, so 	the pass rate is 80/100 = 0.8 (80%)

	This data can be retrieved in Test Metric documents. 
	Run rate is mandatory to be 100% unless a clear reason is given.
	Pass rate is dependent on project scope, but achieving high pass rate is a goal.
	
	Example:Your Team has already done the test executions. They report the test result to you, and they want you to confirm the Exit Criteria. 
 
	In above case, the Run rate is mandatory is 100%, but the test team only completed 90% of test cases. It means the Run rate is not satisfied, so do 	NOT confirm the Exit Criteria  




5) Resource Planning:
---------------------
	
	Resource plan is a detailed summary of all types of resources required to complete project task. Resource could be human, equipment and materials 	needed to complete a project 
	The resource planning is important factor of the test planning because helps in determining the number of resources (employee, equipment…) to be 	used for the project. Therefore, the Test Manager can make the correct schedule & estimation for the project. 
	This section represents the recommended resources for your project. 
	Human Resource

	The following table represents various members in your project team 

      
	Test Manager: 
	-------------
	Manage the whole project 
	Define project directions 
	Acquire appropriate resources 

	Tester:
	--------
	Identifying and describing appropriate test techniques/tools/automation architecture 
	Verify and assess the Test Approach 
	Execute the tests, Log results, Report the defects. 
	Tester could be in-sourced or out-sourced members, base on the project budget 
	For the task which required low skill, I recommend you choose outsourced members to save project cost. 
      
	Developer in Test :
	------------------
	Implement the test cases, test program, test suite etc. 

	
	Test Administrator :
	------------------
	Builds up and ensures Test Environment and assets are managed and maintained 
	SupportTester to use the test environment for test execution 

	
	SQA members:
	------------
	Take in charge of quality assurance 
	Check  to confirm whether the testing process is meeting specified requirements 

	System Resource: Server,Test tool, Network, Computer 



6) Plan Test Environment:
-------------------------
	
	What is the Test Environment
	A testing environment is a setup of software and hardware on which the testing team is going to execute test cases. The test environment consists of 	real business and user environment, as well as physical environments, such as server, front end running environment. 


	How to setup the Test Environment
	Back to your project, how do you set up test environment for this banking website? 
	To finish this task, you need a strong cooperation between Test Team and Development Team 
 
	You should ask the developer some questions to understand the web application under test clearly. Here’re some recommended questions. Of course, you 	can ask the other questions if you need. 

	What is the maximum user connection which this website can handle at the same time?
	What are hardware/software requirements to install this website?
	Does the user's computer need any particular setting to browse the website?
	
 

7) Schedule & Estimation:
-------------------------

	In the article Test estimation, you already used some techniques to estimate the effort to complete the project. Now you should include that 	estimation as well as the schedule to the Test Planning 
	In the Test Estimation phase, suppose you break out the whole project into small tasks and add the estimation for each task as below 


	Task 	 				Members 						Estimate effort 

	Create the test specification 		Test Designer 						170 man-hour 
	Perform Test Execution 			Tester, Test Administrator 				80 man-hour 
	Test Report 				Tester 							10 man-hour 
	Test Delivery  											20 man-hour 
	Total												280 man-hour 


	Then you create the schedule to complete these tasks. 
	Making schedule is a common term in project management. By creating a solid schedule in the Test Planning, the Test Manager can use it as tool for 	monitoring the project progress, control the cost overruns. 
	
	To create the project schedule, the Test Manager needs several types of input as below: 

	Employee and project deadline: The working days, the project deadline, resource availability are the factors which affected to the schedule
	
	Project estimation:  Base on the estimation, the Test Manager knows how long it takes to complete the project. So he can make the appropriate 		project schedule

	Project Risk : Understanding the risk helps Test Manager add enough extra time to the project schedule to deal with the risks
	Let’s practice with an example: 
	Suppose the boss wants to complete the project Guru99 in one month, you already estimated the effort for each tasks in Test Estimation. You can 		create the schedule as below 
 

8) Test Deliverables:
---------------------

	Test Deliverables is a list of all the documents, tools and other components that has to be developed and maintained in support of the testing 	effort. 

	There are different test deliverables at every phase of the software development lifecycle. 
 
	Test deliverables are provided before testing phase. 
	
	Test plans document.
	Test cases documents
	Test Design specifications.
	Test deliverables are provided during the testing 
	Test Scripts
	Simulators.
	Test Data
	Test Traceability Matrix
	Error logs and execution logs.

	Test deliverables are provided after the testing cycles is over. 
	Test Results/reports
	Defect Report
	Installation/ Test procedures guidelines
	Release notes
